README.md, before:

# **Employee Productivity Tracker**

An innovative application designed to empower employees to log and track their daily tasks, ensuring transparency, fairness, and enhanced productivity. This platform provides actionable insights for both employees and employers through advanced analytics, AI-powered tools, and user-friendly dashboards.

---

## **Table of Contents**

1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [Key Features](#key-features)
3. [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
4. [Installation](#installation)
5. [Usage](#usage)
6. [Dependencies](#dependencies)
7. [Submission Guidelines](#submission-guidelines)

---

## **Overview**

The **Employee Productivity Tracker** helps employees log tasks, track their productivity, and receive feedback. Employers benefit from insightful analytics, enabling better management and recognition of employee efforts. The app fosters a fair and transparent work environment while improving efficiency across the organization.

---

## **Key Features**

### **Employee Task Logging**

-   Log daily tasks with details (title, description, time spent, priority, references).
-   Categorize tasks into **BAU**, **Ad Hoc**, or **Project-Based**.
-   Attach supporting documents for context.

### **Employer Dashboard**

-   View productivity insights with graphs, tables, and reports.
-   Compare team performance and identify trends.

### **AI-Powered Productivity Insights**

-   Efficiency scoring based on task completion.
-   Predict performance trends and highlight burnout risks.
-   Sentiment analysis to assess employee satisfaction.

### **Gamification Features**

-   Leaderboards to encourage healthy competition.
-   Team challenges with rewards and badges.

### **Role-Based Access Control**

-   Distinct views for employers and employees with tailored analytics.

---

## **Technologies Used**

-   **Frontend:** [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/), [React](https://react.dev/)
-   **Styling:** [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/), [Radix UI](https://www.radix-ui.com/)
-   **State Management:** React Context API, React Hook Form
-   **Data Visualization:** [Recharts](https://recharts.org/)
-   **AI-Powered Analytics:** Integration of custom algorithms (details in the application).
-   **Other Tools:** Date-fns for date manipulation, Zod for schema validation.

---

## **Installation**

Follow the steps below to set up the project locally:

1. **Clone the Repository**

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/employee-productivity-tracker.git
    cd employee-productivity-tracker
    ```

2. **Install Dependencies**

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

3. **Run the Development Server**

    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

4. **Build for Production**

    ```bash
    npm run build
    ```

5. **Start the Production Server**
    ```bash
    npm start
    ```

---

## **Usage**

1. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to access the app.
2. **Employee View:**
    - Log daily tasks, track timelines, and view personalized feedback.
3. **Employer View:**
    - Access productivity dashboards, generate reports, and identify team trends.

---

## **Dependencies**

Below are the key dependencies and their purposes:

### **Core Dependencies**

-   **Next.js (15.1.5):** Server-rendered React framework for building web apps.
-   **React (18.3.1):** UI library for building components.
-   **ShadCn UI:** Accessible React components for styling UI elements.
-   **TailwindCSS:** Utility-first CSS framework for styling.
-   **Zod (3.24.1):** Forms validation for form inputs and data validation.

### **Data Handling & Visualization**

-   **React Hook Form (7.54.2):** Simplified form handling.
-   **Recharts (2.15.0):** Data visualization through charts.
-   **Date-fns (3.6.0):** Date and time utilities for task management.

### **Dev Dependencies**

-   **TypeScript (5):** Static typing for JavaScript.
-   **ESLint:** Linting tool to ensure code quality.
-   **TailwindCSS Animate:** Provides animation utilities.

For the complete list, refer to the `package.json` file.

---

### **Deployed Link**

-   Deploy the project (e.g., [Vercel](https://work-wise-20nsffdff-satyajeet1152000s-projects.vercel.app/login/)) and include the link here:  
    **[Live Demo](https://work-wise-20nsffdff-satyajeet1152000s-projects.vercel.app/login)**

---

Commit message:

Revise contribution section and update links
Updated the README to reflect contribution notes and modified section titles.

README.md, after:

# **Employee Productivity Tracker**

An innovative application designed to empower employees to log and track their daily tasks, ensuring transparency, fairness, and enhanced productivity. This platform provides actionable insights for both employees and employers through advanced analytics, AI-powered tools, and user-friendly dashboards.

---

## **Table of Contents**

1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [Key Features](#key-features)
3. [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
4. [Installation](#installation)
5. [Usage](#usage)
6. [Dependencies](#dependencies)
7. [Contribution Note](#Contribution-Note)
8. [Submission Guidelines](#submission-guidelines)

---

## **Overview**

The **Employee Productivity Tracker** helps employees log tasks, track their productivity, and receive feedback. Employers benefit from insightful analytics, enabling better management and recognition of employee efforts. The app fosters a fair and transparent work environment while improving efficiency across the organization.

---

## **Key Features**

### **Employee Task Logging**

-   Log daily tasks with details (title, description, time spent, priority, references).
-   Categorize tasks into **BAU**, **Ad Hoc**, or **Project-Based**.
-   Attach supporting documents for context.

### **Employer Dashboard**

-   View productivity insights with graphs, tables, and reports.
-   Compare team performance and identify trends.

### **AI-Powered Productivity Insights**

-   Efficiency scoring based on task completion.
-   Predict performance trends and highlight burnout risks.
-   Sentiment analysis to assess employee satisfaction.

### **Gamification Features**

-   Leaderboards to encourage healthy competition.
-   Team challenges with rewards and badges.

### **Role-Based Access Control**

-   Distinct views for employers and employees with tailored analytics.

---

## **Technologies Used**

-   **Frontend:** [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/), [React](https://react.dev/)
-   **Styling:** [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/), [Radix UI](https://www.radix-ui.com/)
-   **State Management:** React Context API, React Hook Form
-   **Data Visualization:** [Recharts](https://recharts.org/)
-   **AI-Powered Analytics:** Integration of custom algorithms (details in the application).
-   **Other Tools:** Date-fns for date manipulation, Zod for schema validation.

---

## **Installation**

Follow the steps below to set up the project locally:

1. **Clone the Repository**

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/employee-productivity-tracker.git
    cd employee-productivity-tracker
    ```

2. **Install Dependencies**

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

3. **Run the Development Server**

    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```

4. **Build for Production**

    ```bash
    npm run build
    ```

5. **Start the Production Server**
    ```bash
    npm start
    ```

---

## **Usage**

1. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to access the app.
2. **Employee View:**
    - Log daily tasks, track timelines, and view personalized feedback.
3. **Employer View:**
    - Access productivity dashboards, generate reports, and identify team trends.

---

## **Dependencies**

Below are the key dependencies and their purposes:

### **Core Dependencies**

-   **Next.js (15.1.5):** Server-rendered React framework for building web apps.
-   **React (18.3.1):** UI library for building components.
-   **ShadCn UI:** Accessible React components for styling UI elements.
-   **TailwindCSS:** Utility-first CSS framework for styling.
-   **Zod (3.24.1):** Forms validation for form inputs and data validation.

### **Data Handling & Visualization**

-   **React Hook Form (7.54.2):** Simplified form handling.
-   **Recharts (2.15.0):** Data visualization through charts.
-   **Date-fns (3.6.0):** Date and time utilities for task management.

### **Dev Dependencies**

-   **TypeScript (5):** Static typing for JavaScript.
-   **ESLint:** Linting tool to ensure code quality.
-   **TailwindCSS Animate:** Provides animation utilities.

For the complete list, refer to the `package.json` file.

---

## Developer Contribution Note

This project was one of my earliest experiences during my training at Masai School. At that time, I was still learning core JavaScript concepts, while the team lead was exploring advanced technologies like **Next.js**, **schema validation**, and **component architecture**.

### My main contributions included:
- Working closely with the lead developer to understand the structure of a real-world Next.js project  
- Assisting in organizing and maintaining the documentation and README  
- Learning how schema validation, routing, and frontend frameworks operate in large applications  
- Supporting the planning and conceptual workflow of task logging and productivity features  

This project played an important role in helping me understand how fullstack applications are architected, even before I was fully hands-on with advanced technologies.

---

### **Deployed Link**

-   Deployed the project on [Vercel](https://work-wise-20nsffdff-satyajeet1152000s-projects.vercel.app/login/) and included the link here:  
    **[Live Demo](https://work-wise-20nsffdff-satyajeet1152000s-projects.vercel.app/login)**

---
